---
layout: default
open_links_in_new_tab: true
title: "Book I: On the Origins of Christianity"
date: 2024-09-13
category: books
---

On the Origins of Judaism

By Ralph Perrier


1 Ethnogenesis of the Jews \
2 The Myth of a Jewish People \
3 Alexandria \
4 Romanization

5 Modern Judaism

1 Ethnogenesis of the Jews

Modern day jews evolved from the mixture of Celtic Cimbri and Galatians
from Anatolia [^1], Neolithic proto-Sicilians who originated in Anatolia
[^2], native Canaanites (who were literal human-neanderthal hybrids)
[^3], and proto-Arab Natufians (Natufians had ~20% higher Basal
Eurasian -- Basal means with SSA, North Africa was green/fertile so
sub-saharin Africans could cross the Sahara).

The original redhead clan of Druids that ended up becoming Israelites
were Scythians who migrated southwards during the early Aryan invasion
of 4000 BC. Scythian --> Saka --> Isaac. This migration coincides with
the development of early bronze age civilization. They went to Anatolia
first (Galatia) [^4], then Babylon, then Canaan ('Gaulinitis' = Golan
Heights). In Canaan, the natives then came under the suzerainty of these
Celts and their entire identity, language, and religion derives from
this. The evidence for this is paternal DNA assays (Galatian Celts
carried the Celtic R1b haploytpe (10% of Ashkenazi jews), but also R1a,
G2a, J2a, which are other paternal lineages that make up the bulk of
jews paternal haplotypes), the fact that the Celtic languages are
surprisingly Semitic with a verb-subject-object word order and a
shocking amount of vocabulary overlap, and the name of Irish deities,
Balor and his holiday Beltaine are cognate to Bal and Elatha the Irish
Uranus is cognate to Hebrew El. There was an ancient Celtic conquerer
named 'Ram the Druid' and Abraham = Ab Ram, or 'Ab אֲב (father) of Ram',
he was also Ra in Egyptian mythology, the basis of the name 'Ram'esses
in Egypt, Ram the Aries, Rama in the Vedas, Brahmin caste in India
refers to him, and Lama in Tibet. King David (DWD) = King Druid. 1
Samuel 16:12 claims that King David had red hair. The name Israel itself
is named after Osiris (Aesir), the southeasternmost grand Druid (in
Phoenician, the name 'Osiris' is written as 'Usr' or 'Ysr', which
becomes the Hebrew 'Yisrael'. Osiris is depicted as having green skin,
ie. he is the 'Druid green man'). As for the name 'jew', the descriptive
name Judaism was never used by the Hebrews or Israelites; it appears
only with Christianity. It comes from Yahud or Auda which comes from
Iodh or Ioux. Iodh and Ioux are associated with the yew tree in Druidism
and is sometimes linked to the concept of rebirth and regeneration.
There was also an ancient Celtic tribe known as the Iudii or Iudaei, who
inhabited the region of Gaul (modern-day France) and Britain. The
ancient Celtic prefixes 'Rab' or 'Rhab' mean 'wise one' or 'seer', and a
Druid equates to a Rabbi.

As for the term 'Hebrew", it comes from the Celts who called themselves
Iberi. The name of Abaris the Hyperborean, a Druid priest who was
Pythagoras's teacher, who was the son of Seuthes (Seth), shows this. The
term Abaris was inspired by the Semitic Iber. Iber was sometimes
rendered as Aber or Heber and is pronounced as Hebrew in the Hebrew
languages. Hyperborea, which just like Atlantis, was another name for
Ireland. The word Atlantis means 'The Island of Atlas'. The titan Atlas
was a key figure in Greek mythology and is depicted as being the bearer
of the heavens. According to early Greek mythology, Atlas lived on the
island of Hyperborea. Over time Hyperborea became Hybernia or Hibernia,
the Roman name for Ireland. Iber is an ethnonym that shows up in areas
where the Celtic people settled (Ebro river, Iberia, Hibernia, etc.).
Dionysius of Alexandria in Egypt (ca. 190-264 CE) also referred to the
inhabitants of Britain as Iberi.

'Ashkenazi', or 'Ashkuza', was the name given to the Scythians by the
ancient Akkadians [^5]. The Assyrians called the Scythians "Asguzaya"
and the ancient Persians called the Scythians 'Saka'. In Biblical
Hebrew, the Ashkuz (Ashkenaz) are considered to be a direct offshoot
from the Gimirri, known as the Cimmerians to the ancient Greeks.
Cimmerians were a middle eastern offshoot of the Celtic Cimbri tribe.

These Celtic males mixed with Neolithic Anatolian woman before their
descendants moved into Egypt (Apiru or Habiru) and Caanan and then mixed
with indigenous people in those places.

2 The Myth of a Jewish People 

All jewish history is made up. Jewish people were invented by Ptolemy I
Soter. Before Ptolemy I Soter their religion was Celtic Druidism. This
religion was then Hellenized at the Library of Alexandria and then later
combined with the Divine Julius cult. So, ancient judaism (up to Rabbi
Akiva) was a syncretic attempt by the Alexandrians and then Romans to
pacify the jews (who were then Celtic male-Anatolian female mixes) [^6].

3 Alexandria

It was in Alexandria at the Library of Alexandria where the Pentateuch
and Septuagint were written. See: Chapter 7. The Alexandrian School.
Sometime after 283-246 BCE (Ptolemy I Soter's reign) their religion
(Druidism) was Hellenized. The myth of the jewish people and the Laws of
Moses were based on Plato's hypothetical colony of Magnesia from his
thesis called The Laws (347 BC) in which the proposed charter for the
Cretan colony of Magnesia was modeled in large part on Athenian legal
and constitutional traditions. Ancestor received law from a deity,
hereditary priesthood rather than king, as well as the division into 12
tribes were all part of the formula. Plato's Timaeus (360 BC) is where
the story of Abraham comes from. Plato's Timaeus is also the source for
Genesis 1-11. Homer's Odysseey was the source of Genesis 24, 42-46 [^7].
The biblical concept of hell was stolen from Plato's Replublic ('Myth of
Er'), and the spiritual plane of Heaven is ripped off from Plato's
'World of Forms'. Exodus is just a semitized retcon of Jason and the
Argonauts, and the Oracles Against the Nations plagiarize the Sibylline
Oracles.

Moses = Osarseph (Osar (Osiris) and seph (son) = Son of Osirus). The
Greek rendering of Moses and Osarseph are identical. Osarseph appears in
accounts by the Egyptian priest Manetho, who described him as a renegade
priest leading a group of lepers in rebellion, eventually adopting the
name "Moses" (Josephus. 'Against Apion' discussing Manetho's account of
Osarseph). Osarseph also = Serapis. The "Ser" symbol in Ser-apis is the
same as seph meaning "son of". Serapis can be interpreted as "Son of
Osiris-Apis", which evolved into "Son of Osiris". So, Serapis is just
another word for Osarseph. The Serapis cult was invented by Ptolemy I
Soter to subjugate the Egyptians to their Greek rulers.

The reason their religion was subverted in Alexandria was because
Ptolemy I Soter was trying to achieve three main goals: 1)Foment the
Maccabean revolt in order to exile Greeks back to Hellas since the
homeland population was low after Alexander's conquests, 2)Get them to
go to war with the eastern diadochi (successor) Seleucids which
benefited the other diadochi rulers including Ptolemy I Soter, 3)Subvert
Canaanite identity once and for all, destroying the only contestant to
Greco-Roman power in the world up to that point. He was also probably
trying to civilize them as well (child sacrifice of the firstborn on the
8th day at Gehinnom was replaced with circumcision, etc.).

4 Romanization

Ceasar's gentilice (surname) was Iulius. We are told by Virgil that it
goes back to Ceasar's supposed ancestor Iulus or Iule, after the ancient
Celtic tribe known as the Iudii or Iudaei, who inhabited the region of
Gaul (modern-day France) and Britain. I(J)upiter was also called Jove or
Iove to the Romans. The Latin pronunciation of Iove would have been
Yoh-Way, i.e Yahweh/Yhwh, so Yahweh Saboath, the god of the hebrew
bible, is I(J)ove (Roman Zeus) Sabazios (Thracian Zeus).

Abel and Cain are just a copy of Romulus and Remus. Judas Iscariot is a
copy of Brutus. Genesis 4:5-31. Enoch, Irad, Mehujael, Methuselah,
Lamech, Seth, Enosh, Kenan, Mahalalel, are copies of Titus Livy's Regal
Rome of the seven kings.

The Proto-Indo-European root for "Julius" (Iulius in Latin) is
reconstructed as "yews", while the Proto-Indo-European root for "Jew"
(Iudaeus in Latin) is also reconstructed as "yews". 'Gaius' in the name
Gaius Julius Caesar refers to his tribal affiliation in the Gallian
(Gauls (Galli = Celt in Latin)) tribe. Also, Caesar, Kaiser (German for
Caesar), Kesar or Kaysar (Persian for Caesar), Kaisar (Ancient Greek for
Caesar), Tsar (Russian for Caesar) and Khazar are not just phonetic
coincidences. It all ties back to the Divine Julius cult. As explained
in Chapter 1, Julius Caesar was a title, so Gaius Julius Caesar could
conceivably translate to: King Jew of the Celtic tribe Galli. I.e.,
Julius Caesar aka Asander of Bosphorus (I-Zeus) was a Celtic deified
king.

Paul's Epistle to the Galatians was sent to the Iudaei of Galatia.
Galata in Classical Anatolia was settled by the Gauls. Galatia bordered
the Bosphorus, and Julius Caesar/Asander was king of this region. The
king of Galatia during this time was Asander's brother-in-law Amyntas of
Galatia who ruled an area that streched into India under the alias
Amyntas Nikator.

Lucan's 'Pharsalia or De Bello Civili (On the Civil War)' mentions that
the Gauls in Galatia worshiped a deity called Esus/Hesus/Iesus.

Suetonius, in 'Divus Julius' (84.:1) states that there were an
inordinate amount of jews at Julius Caesars funeral and they even burned
their jewellery in mourning. Josephus also frequently mentions the
benefits conferred to jews by Julius Caesar (Anti. Jud. xiv. 14, 15,
16).

This is why several descendants of Roman aristocrats described
themselves as 'jewish' despite being ethnically Celtic Gauls or Aryan
Sarmatians. For example, Ptolemy (Alexander) bar Menneus/Ptolemy X
Alexander I (Simon Boethus) played the role of judaen high priest, Mark
Antony played the role of King Herod. Izates of Monobazus (Jesus ben
Gamala/Gamaliel aka Jesus ben Sapphias) and Amyntas Nikator aka Amyntas
of Galatia (Jesus ben Fabus) played the role of rabbis, Tiberius
Gemellus who was a grandson of Emperor Tiberius and a cousin of Emperor
Caligula was rabbi Gamaliel/St. Gamaliel, Aquila of Sinope aka Onkelos
who was a nephew of emperor Hadrian, Titus Flavian Clemens who was a
cousin of the emperor Domitian aka 'Clement of Rome' was Ketia bar
Shalom, Rabbi Meir who was the grandson of emperor Nero, Philo of
Alexandria was 'Philo the Jew', her brother-husband Tiberius Julius
Alexander identified as Jewish, etc. 'Jew' at the time meant Celtic
Druid of the Iudii or Iudaei tribe.

5 Modern Judaism

The area of modern israel was wiped out multiple times. Modern jews are
a hodgepodge of ethnicities who survided the Bar Kokhba revolt of
132--136 CE. Also, the religion of Modern judaism is a recent invention.
Judaism is not the Torah (Old Testament), and has not been for a long
time. The Talmud was completed after the New Testament and this is what
modern jews follow. Essentially, jews follow the program that Shimon bar
Yochai created.

Endnotes (Chapter 3)

(a) Yohai is a nickname for yochai. The name Yochai means 'YHWAH is
    gracius' from the Hebrew word Yochanan sometimes transcribed as
    Johanan. Was he also Johanan the Alexandrian? This would place him
    in Alexandria at the same time as Markianos of Alexandria

[^1]: Study that traces the origins of ashkenazi jews to northern
    Turkey. The towns Ashkanaz, Ishkanaz, Eshkanaz, etc."Genetic origins
    of Ashkenazi Jews. National Center for Biotechnology Information"
    https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5478715
    [[link](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5478715/)].

[^2]: Here is a study that shows jews shows matrilinially descend from
    four "Sicilian" women (Ashkenazi Jewish women descended mostly from
    Italian converts, new study asserts. Genetic Literacy Project
    https://geneticliteracyproject.org/2013/10/08/ashkenazi-jewish-women-descended-mostly-from-italian-converts-new-study-asserts
    [[link](https://geneticliteracyproject.org/2013/10/08/ashkenazi-jewish-women-descended-mostly-from-italian-converts-new-study-asserts/)].
    It wasn't Sicilian women that they matrilinially descend from, it
    was neolithic proto-Sicilian women from Anatolia before they moved
    to Sicily, while the jews moved to Cannan. The Anatolians were
    Phrygians, Hittites, Carians, and Galatians. The Phrygians were
    originally from Romania/Dacia and were followers of the Sabazios
    cult, the Hittites (Scythian/proto-ashkenazi jews before mixing with
    Neanderthals in Cannan? (Ancient DNA reveals complex population
    dynamics in the Near East. Nature,
    https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-024-70206-y
    [[link](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-024-70206-y)]), the
    Carians have a strong connection with the settlement of Rome
    (Aquilla = Qos = god of Kos of Caria), Sparta, and Canaan, and the
    Galatians were Celtic and were Druids.

[^3]: You can read more about the Jew-Neanderthal connection here:
    (Humans and Neanderthals likely interbred in the Middle East.
    Science Magazine,
    https://www.sciencemag.org/news/2015/01/humans-and-neandertals-likely-interbred-middle-east),
    (Remains of hybrid Neanderthal-Sapiens population found in Israel.
    Haaretz,
    https://www.haaretz.com/israel-news/2019-11-08/ty-article-magazine/.premium/remains-of-hybrid-neanderthal-sapiens-population-found-in-israel/0000017f-dbcf-db5a-a57f-dbef18940000),
    (Evidence of human-Neanderthal hybrids found in Israeli cave.
    Forward,
    https://forward.com/culture/434525/evidence-of-human-neanderthal-hybrids-found-in-israeli-cave),
    (The Chosen People: Caucasus, Deceptions, and Historical. Amazon,
    https://www.amazon.com/Chosen-People-Caucasus-Deceptions-Historical/dp/0883781476),
    (Genetic studies of Jews. National Center for Biotechnology
    Information, https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6309227),
    (Genetic studies of Jews. Wikipedia,
    https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genetic_studies_of_Jews),
    (Ashkenazi Jewish population history revealed by ancient DNA
    analysis. GenomeWeb,
    https://www.genomeweb.com/sequencing/ashkenazi-jewish-population-history-revealed-ancient-dna-analysis),
    (Ashkenazi gene increases schizophrenia. Haaretz,
    https://www.haaretz.com/2013-11-26/ty-article/.premium/ashkenazi-gene-increases-schizophrenia/0000017f-e04b-d75c-a7ff-fccfa3e10000),
    (Genetic studies of Jews. National Center for Biotechnology
    Information, https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7465115/),
    (So, are the Neanderthals still Jews? Slate,
    https://slate.com/news-and-politics/1997/08/so-are-the-neanderthals-still-jews.html),
    (Did modern humans and Neanderthals really meet in the Negev?
    Haaretz,
    https://www.haaretz.com/archaeology/2021-06-21/ty-article/.premium/did-modern-humans-and-neanderthals-really-meet-in-the-negev/),
    (BBC News, https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/science-environment-57586315),
    (New America Government,
    https://archive.ph/2024.02.24-211636/https://newamericangovernment.org/ailink/802/),
    (Blogger,
    https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEiyDzxbNmb6Oj5aDWOknO84-hwkdkoi)

[^4]: "Galatians (People)". Wikipedia.
    https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Galatians_(people)

[^5]: Josephus. Vol. 5: Antiquities: 8:2:5, pp. 593-595

[^6]: "Divine julius cult". Wikipedia.
    https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roman_imperial_cult#Divus_Julius

[^7]: Gmirkin, Russell (2016). Plato and the Creation of the Hebrew
    Bible.
