---
layout: post
title:  "The Secrets of Rabbi Simon ben Yohai and the Origins of Islam"
date:   2016-04-01 09:00:00 +0200
updated: 2018-11-23 21:40:58 +0100
category: essays
---

<p>I was just reading&nbsp;<i>Hagarism: The Making of the Islamic World</i>&nbsp;by Patricia Crone and Michael Cook (1977) [<a href="https://ia904503.us.archive.org/1/items/Hagarism/Hagarism%3B%20The%20Making%20of%20the%20Islamic%20World-Crone%2C%20Cook.pdf" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">link</a>] which&nbsp;is a book about the early history of Islam. In the book they trace the origins of Islam to <i>The</i>&nbsp;<i>Secrets of Rabbi Simon ben Yohai</i>&nbsp;[<a href="https://pages.charlotte.edu/john-reeves/research-projects/trajectories-in-near-eastern-apocalyptic/nistarot-secrets-of-r-shimon-b-yohai-2/" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">link</a>] which is a Jewish apocalypse of the mid-eighth century about the revelations of the 2nd-century rabbi Shimon/Simon bar Yochai also known as Rashbi (1), who was a student of Rabbi Akiva (who made the Mishna and the Halakha of the Talmud).</p><p>Simon ben Yohai wrote that&nbsp;the "secrets" were revealed to him when he was hiding in a cave on account of the persecutions of Caesar king of Edom (i.e., Rome). His "secrets" were his blueprint for the destruction of Rome (Esau) and all western "gyrwn" (Aramic form of goyim) through using Ishmael (Arabs). It is also the manuscript for Islam.</p><p>The name "Simon" denotes that he was of the tribe of Simon/Simeon and he obviously was a descendant of Simon Boethius, and Yohai is a nickname for yochai. The name Yochai means "YHWAH is gracius" from the Hebrew word Yochanan sometimes transcribed as Johanan (was he also John of Gischala who was a leader of the first Jewish revolt against the Romans?).</p><p>In my yet-to-be completed book, I trace Zoroastrianism back to Baruch ben Neriah (who was both Jeremiah in the bible and Zoroaster) and his Simonian and Zadokite/sons of Zadok (Zadokite = the upper echelon of jewish society, essentially kings) heirs were responsible for the slave-morality religions of Gnosticism (Simon Boethus/Magus/Peter), Christianity (Philo of Alexandria aka Cleopatra of Mauritania and her son Tiberius Julius Alexander/Josephus/Arrius Piso), and this line was very likely also responsible for creating Islam.</p><div>In<i> Hagarism: The Making of the Islamic World</i>&nbsp;the authors theorize that the jews invented Islam as a psy-op to weaponize the Arabs to attack the Byzantine empire to free judea.&nbsp;<i>The Secrets of Rabbi Simon ben Yohai</i>&nbsp;certainly corroborates this theory.</div><div><br /></div><div>In Jerusalem Talmud Kiddushin, Rabbi Shimon bar Yochai stated: "Kill the best of Gentiles, smash the head of the best of snakes". He was also the biggest proponent of his teacher Rabbi Akiva's belief that Rome was Edom.</div><div><br /></div><div>You can read the full text of&nbsp;<i>The Secrets of Rabbi Simon ben Yohai</i>&nbsp;here [<a href="https://pages.charlotte.edu/john-reeves/research-projects/trajectories-in-near-eastern-apocalyptic/nistarot-secrets-of-r-shimon-b-yohai-2/" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">link</a>]. It reads exactly like&nbsp;<i>The "Protocols of the Elders of Zion,</i>&nbsp;and yes, the blueprint for the destruction of Edom and the manuscript for Islam is clearly there.&nbsp;&nbsp;</div><div><br /></div><div>Quotes:</div><div><br /></div><p>"The second king who will arise from Ishmael [Ishmael = Arabs] will be a friend of Israel. He will repair their breaches and (fix) the breaches of the Temple and shape Mt. Moriah and make the whole of it a level plain. He will build for himself there a place for prayer upon the site of the ‘foundation stone,’ as Scripture says: ‘and set your nest on the rock’ (Num 24:21). He will wage war with the children of Esau and slaughter their troops and capture a large number of them, and (eventually) he will die in peace and with great honor.".</p><p>"And there shall arise a great king from Hasarmawet (cf. Gen 10:26), but he will exercise rule only for a few years. Warriors of the children of Qedar shall rise up against him and kill him, and bring to power another king whose name is Mry’w [Mry’w = "Lord"? [<a href="https://www.persee.fr/doc/syria_0039-7946_1983_num_60_1_6792" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">link</a>]]. They shall take him from following flocks and mule-herds and elevate him to the kingship. There shall arise from him ‘four arms’ who will make repairs on the Temple."</p><p>"At the end of the reign of the ‘four arms’ ["Chaturbhuja" in Sanskri means 'four-armed'. Several Hindu deities are depicted with four arms including Vishnu -- I don't know the relevance of this] there shall come to power another king. He will diminish measures for quantity, length, and weight, and enjoy three years of tranquility. A dispute will erupt in the world during his reign, and he will send out mighty forces against the Edomites. There (Byzantium?) they will die of hunger, even though they will have abundant provisions—he will refuse (sustenance) from them, (and) none will be given him. The children of Edom will prevail over the children of Ishmael and slaughter them.&nbsp; Then the children of Ishmael will arise and burn the provisions, and those who are left will flee and depart."</p><p>"After this a great king will come to power and rule for nineteen years. These are his distinguishing marks (lit. ‘signs’): reddish-hued, squinty-eyed (?), and he will have three moles: one on his forehead, one on his right hand, and one on his left arm. He will plant saplings and rebuild ruined cities and tap subterranean waters to bring up water to irrigate his plantings so that his future descendants will have plenty to eat. All who arise to oppose him will submit to his power, and the land will remain undisturbed during his reign, and he will die peacefully."</p><p>*Note on this quote. I once read a theory that Allah and Muhammad were based on Attila the Hun. The name Allah comes from Attila and Attila the redheaded warlord = Muhammad. The story of Attila waging war against Rome was glorified because they wanted the Arabs to attack Eastern Rome (Byzantium).</p><p>1. The medieval kabbalist Moses de Leon attributed the authorship of a key mystical work, the Zohar of the Kabbalah, to Rabbi Simon ben Yohai.</p><p>*The crescent moon symbol in Islam goes back to the royal house of Adiabene. King Izates II ("Iza") of Edessa (known in Greek as the Kingdom of Ourania - or in English the Kingdom of Heaven) used it. Izates or Izas is his title which is an ancient Greek translation of the Avestan word Yazatas (Persian: izad), meaning "lord". He is the jesus figure in the bible, "Isa'' in the Quran, and Sultan Ezid in the Yazadi ('Iza'di) religion. Izates's son was named "Zamaris" (Zamaris the Babylonian jew?) and "Zamaris" has the same meaning as "Muhammad". So, they basically just cut-and-pasted from one of the earliest pre-Marcion (and long before Irenaeus and Thomas Aquinas classed it up by adding Greek Philosophy) versions of christianity (Nestorianism?) which was popular in the Middle East at the time and repackaged it with the psyop that Rabbi Simon ben Yohai conceived and called it Islam. After christianity, Islam was the jews greatest success as Islam would go on to bring down the Edom states of Byzantium, Persia, and the entire Middle East.</p>
