---
layout: post
open_links_in_new_tab: true
title:  "Ancient European Religions: A Reference Guide"
date:   2016-05-01 09:00:00 +0200
category: writing
---

CONTENTS

1 Introduction\
2 Core Cosmologies \
2.1 Monism: The Oneness of Reality \
2.1.1 Types of Monism \
2.2 Polytheism: Many Gods, Many Powers \
2.2.1 Scientific Basis \
2.2.2 Modern Interpretations and Relevance \
2.3 Henotheism: One Top God, Others Below \
3 Beliefs by Cosmology \
4 Rituals by Cosmology \
5 Conclusion \
6 Footnotes

1 Introduction

"Pagan" (Latin: pāgānus, 'rural') was supposed to be a slur that was invented by the catholic church to apply to every non-xtian religion but has since been reappropriated as a general term. Specific ethnic "Pagan" polytheistic religions are: Heathenry is Germanic Paganism ("Asatru" is one of the religions that fall under the Heathenry category). Fyrnsidu is Brittonic Paganism. Druidry is Celtic Paganism. Hellenism is Greek Paganism. Religio Romana is Roman Paganism. Rodnovery is Slavic Paganism. Romuva is Baltic Paganism, etc. 

2 Cosmologies

2.1 Monism

Monism is the philosophical view that all of reality is ultimately one, or that reality is fundamentally unified and that all things are interconnected through a single underlying essence or principle (i.e. materialist/agnostic monists believe this to be energy or matter). Everything in the universe is then seen as emanations or manifestations of this ultimate reality.

Monism comes from Pythagoras (1) who was a student of Abaris the Hyperborean (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abaris_the_Hyperborean \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abaris_the_Hyperborean)\]) (Druidism), and Vedism is the eastern branch of Druidism that was brought to India by Ram the Druid (Rama in the Vedas) (https://www.academia.edu/13113385/Druidism_and_Vedism_Compared \[[link](https://www.academia.edu/13113385/Druidism_and_Vedism_Compared)\]).

2.1.1 Types of Monism 

There are different types of monism: materialistic monists (all is matter) believe that everything is made of matter, and even things like thoughts or consciousness are just products of physical processes. This view aligns with atheism. Idealistic monism (all is mind) is the opposite, where everything is fundamentally mental or spiritual, and the physical world is a manifestation of mind or consciousness. Neutral monism (a mix of both) posits that there's a single substance or principle from which both mind and matter arise, but it's neither purely mental nor purely physical. 

Monist religions are: Pythagorianism, Platonism, Druidism (2). 

2.2 Polytheism: Many Gods, Many Powers

Every polytheistic ancestral European religion is similar, the deities just have different regional names. For example, Dyaus Pita (Vedic), Zeus (Greek), Jupiter (Roman), Odin (Nordic), Wotan (German), Esus (Celtic), Wotanaz (Slavic), Ukko and Väinämöinen (Finnish), and so on are all derived from the Aryan allfather Dyeus Pter which translates to Sky Father. The name Zeus comes from the pronunciation of Dyeus, and Jupiter comes from the pronunciation of 'Dyeus Pter'. Wotan is derived from Proto-Germanic Wodanaz, which itself comes from the Proto-Indo-European root Dyeus. Odin comes from Old Norse and is related to the earlier Proto-Germanic Wodanaz.


<body>
    <table>
        <tr>
            <th>Role</th>
            <th>PIE Root</th>
            <th>Vedic</th>
            <th>Hellenism</th>
            <th>Religio Romana</th>
            <th>Heathenry</th>
            <th>Druidism</th>
            <th>Rodnovery</th>
            <th>Romuva</th>
            <th>Finnic</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Sky Father</td>
            <td>*Dyeus Pitar* (sky father)</td>
            <td>Dyaus Pita (sky god)</td>
            <td>Zeus (*Dyeus*, king)</td>
            <td>Jupiter (*Dyeus Pater*, supreme)</td>
            <td>Odin/Wotan (*Wodanaz*, all-father)</td>
            <td>Lugus (*leuk-*, light/leader)</td>
            <td>Svarog (*swar-*, heavenly)</td>
            <td>Dievas (*Dyeus*, sky god)</td>
            <td>Ukko (old man, sky)</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Thunderer</td>
            <td>*Perkʷunos* (striker)</td>
            <td>Indra (*per-*, thunder warrior)</td>
            <td>Zeus (*kerau-*, thunder)</td>
            <td>Jupiter (*fulgur-*, lightning)</td>
            <td>Thor (*þunraz*, hammer)</td>
            <td>Taranis (*taran-*, thunder)</td>
            <td>Perun (*perkʷ-*, thunder)</td>
            <td>Perkūnas (*perkʷ-*, thunder)</td>
            <td>Ukko (thunder)</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Earth Mother</td>
            <td>*Dʰéǵʰōm* (earth)</td>
            <td>Prithvi (*prth-*, earth)</td>
            <td>Demeter (*dā-mātēr*, grain)</td>
            <td>Ceres (*ker-*, growth)</td>
            <td>Jörð (earth) / Frigg (*pri-*, love)</td>
            <td>Danu (*dʰen-*, river)</td>
            <td>Mokosh (*mok-*, fertility)</td>
            <td>Žemyna (*žemė*, earth)</td>
            <td>Maaemo (earth mother)</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Dawn</td>
            <td>*H₂éwsōs* (dawn)</td>
            <td>Ushas (*h₂éws-*, dawn)</td>
            <td>Eos (*h₂éws-*, dawn)</td>
            <td>Aurora (*aus-*, dawn)</td>
            <td>Ēostre (*aus-*, spring)</td>
            <td>Brigid (*bʰr̥ǵʰ-*, shine)</td>
            <td>Zorya (*zor-*, dawn)</td>
            <td>Aušrinė (*aušra*, dawn)</td>
            <td>Päivätär (sun maiden)</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>War</td>
            <td>*Māwort-/*Koryos* (war)</td>
            <td>Indra (warrior)</td>
            <td>Ares (*ar-*, fight)</td>
            <td>Mars (*Māwort-*, war)</td>
            <td>Tyr (*Tiwaz*, justice)</td>
            <td>Camulos (*kam-*, battle)</td>
            <td>Perun (war/thunder)</td>
            <td>Perkūnas (warrior)</td>
            <td>Kuu (minor war)</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Wisdom</td>
            <td>*Weid-* (know)</td>
            <td>Varuna (*wer-*, overseer)</td>
            <td>Apollo (*pel-*, prophecy)</td>
            <td>Minerva (*men-*, mind)</td>
            <td>Odin (*Wodanaz*, wisdom)</td>
            <td>Lugus (*leuk-*, skill)</td>
            <td>Veles (*wel-*, magic)</td>
            <td>Velnias (*wel-*, trickster)</td>
            <td>Väinämöinen (bard)</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Underworld</td>
            <td>*Neh₁t-/*Wel-* (death)</td>
            <td>Yama (*yam-*, death)</td>
            <td>Hades (*h₂éid-*, unseen)</td>
            <td>Pluto (*plout-*, wealth)</td>
            <td>Hel (*kel-*, hidden)</td>
            <td>Arawn (*ar-*, lord)</td>
            <td>Veles (*wel-*, underworld)</td>
            <td>Velnias (*wel-*, chthonic)</td>
            <td>Tuoni (death)</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Fire</td>
            <td>*H₁n̥gʷnis* (fire)</td>
            <td>Agni (*h₁n̥gʷ-*, fire)</td>
            <td>Hephaestus (*h₁ep-*, craft)</td>
            <td>Vulcan (*welk-*, blaze)</td>
            <td>Loki (*leug-*, flicker)</td>
            <td>Belenus (*bel-*, bright)</td>
            <td>Svarozhich (*swar-*, fire)</td>
            <td>Gabija (*gʷʰen-*, hearth)</td>
            <td>Tulikärpänen (firefly)</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Sea</td>
            <td>*Mori-/*Neptonos* (sea)</td>
            <td>Varuna (*wer-*, water)</td>
            <td>Poseidon (*potis-*, lord)</td>
            <td>Neptune (*Neptonos*, sea)</td>
            <td>Njörðr (*ner-*, water)</td>
            <td>Manannán (*mori-*, sea)</td>
            <td>Jarilo (*yar-*, spring)</td>
            <td>Jūras (*mori-*, sea)</td>
            <td>Ahti (sea god)</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Sun</td>
            <td>*Seh₂wōl* (sun)</td>
            <td>Surya (*seh₂w-*, sun)</td>
            <td>Helios (*seh₂w-*, sun)</td>
            <td>Sol (*sōl-*, sun)</td>
            <td>Sól (*sōwilō*, sun)</td>
            <td>Belenus (*bel-*, bright)</td>
            <td>Dazhbog (*dʰaǵʰ-*, day)</td>
            <td>Saulė (*seh₂w-*, sun)</td>
            <td>Päivä (sun)</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Moon</td>
            <td>*Meh₁ns* (moon)</td>
            <td>Chandra (*kand-*, shine)</td>
            <td>Selene (*swel-*, glow)</td>
            <td>Luna (*louks-*, light)</td>
            <td>Máni (*mēn-*, moon)</td>
            <td>Cerridwen (*ker-*, cauldron)</td>
            <td>Jarilo (*yar-*, cycle)</td>
            <td>Mėnulis (*mēn-*, moon)</td>
            <td>Kuu (moon)</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Love</td>
            <td>*Prih₂-* (love)</td>
            <td>Kama (*kam-*, desire)</td>
            <td>Aphrodite (*bʰr̥h₁-*, foam)</td>
            <td>Venus (*wen-*, desire)</td>
            <td>Freyja (*frawjō*, lady)</td>
            <td>Brigid (*bʰr̥ǵʰ-*, exalted)</td>
            <td>Lada (*lad-*, harmony)</td>
            <td>Laima (*leim-*, luck/love)</td>
            <td>Kyllikki (beauty)</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Fate</td>
            <td>*Wert-* (turn/fate)</td>
            <td>Rta (*h₁r̥-tó*, order)</td>
            <td>Moirae (*mer-*, portion)</td>
            <td>Parcae (*par-*, allot)</td>
            <td>Norns (*ner-*, twist)</td>
            <td>Cerridwen (*ker-*, destiny)</td>
            <td>Sudice (*sud-*, judge)</td>
            <td>Laima (*leim-*, fate)</td>
            <td>Kivutar (fate/pain)</td>
        </tr>
    </table>
</body>
              
Some polytheistic religious followers see the polytheistic deities as sentient personal gods, others see them as allegorical personifications of natural forces (numen/animism) or as emanations or forms/symbolic representations of a particular quality or principle (matter or energy) and the cosmology is pantheism/polydeism to them. 

2.2.1 Scientific Basis

The polytheistic framework represents an early attempt to model reality, externalize cognition, and adapt to ecology, reflecting logical human responses to complexity, and can be viewed through the lens of complex systems theory.

2.2.2 Modern Interpretations and Relevance

Many modern atheistic polytheistic Pagans (3) are inspired by Carl Jung who combined psychoanalysis with Heathenry. The polytheistic deities = 'archetypes (4) of the collective unconscious (5)' to these Pagans.

2.3 Henotheism: One Top God, Others Below 

Henotheism is how monist cosmology applies to polytheistic European religions: Monism is the philosophical position that there is only one fundamental substance or reality, while henotheism is the worship of one god while acknowledging the existence of other gods. In a monist-henotheist system, the one substance or ultimate reality (the monad) could be considered the supreme or highest deity, with lower deities or gods being allegorical personifications of natural forces (numen/animism) or manifestations or emanations of this ultimate reality. This would mean that the lower deities are not separate, independent entities, but rather symbolic expressions of the one underlying substance.\

3 Beliefs

in monist religions, monist cosmology posits that all phenomena reduces to one principle and the universe is composed of a single fundamental substance. This means that the divine is not a separate and transcendent entity but rather an inherent aspect of the universe, and humans are not separate from the divine but rather an unfolding or manifestation of it. Therefore, in monist cosmologies, self-realization or self-actualization is often seen as the process of recognizing and embodying one's true nature as an expression of the divine. This can be seen as a form of self-deification.

Core Idea: You’re a piece of the cosmic puzzle, not a stranger to it. The divine is in everything; self-awareness is key.  

In polytheistic religions, beliefs and practices centered around the worship of multiple deities, each often associated with specific aspects of nature, human experience, and societal functions. These religions typically emphasize a deep connection to the natural world, with rituals and celebrations aligned with seasonal cycles, agricultural practices, and celestial events. Ancestor veneration, animism, and the belief in spirits inhabiting natural elements are common themes. Overall, these belief systems foster a sense of community, reverence for the earth, and an understanding of the divine as manifest in various forms.

Core Idea: Life’s a web—connect to the earth and your roots.

4 Rituals

In monist religions, rituals are about bringing someone to self-realization. For example, rituals like yoga, meditation, self-inquiry, and mantra recitation are used to help the individual realize their true nature as a manifestation of the divine. The goal is to awaken the individual's inner divinity and is aimed at helping the individual realize their true nature as the ultimate reality.

In polytheistic religions, rituals are about manifesting the deities or forces of nature/laws of physics into your daily life. To secular Pagans who are inspired by Carl Jung, rituals are ways of inducing 'active imagination' (6) or a part of the process of 'individuation' (7).

5 Conclusion

Ancient European religions were Dharmic (non-dogmatic), so the cosmology was always left up to the follower. This is also seen in Vedism. Essentially, these religious systems reflect sophisticated responses to human experience, and is why they have the broadest appeal; atheists, theists, polytheists, et.al., can find meaning in these religions. The important thing is that the religion functions as a cultural taxonomy, provides a shared cultural heritage, community and social network, and tradition. \

6 Footnotes

1\. "And the Celtic Druids investigated to the very highest point the Pythagorean philosophy, after Zamolxis, by birth a Thracian, a servant of Pythagoras, became to them the originator of this philosophy"_ -- 'The Refutation of All Heresies', Chapter XXII.--The Druids; Progenitors of their System by St. Hippolytus. Diodorus Siculus, Book V, §26-32 (36 BCE), and Alexander Cornelius Polyhistor, among other contemporaneous sources, also refer to the Druids as "Pythagorean". \
2\. Druidism is the religion that was subverted to make Christianity, so Christians going to Druidism can continue celebrating the same traditions, symbolism, and holidays, just with a monist cosmology. Druidic Calendar: Yule (Winter Solstice) - December 21/22 Celebrate the rebirth of the sun (Christian Equivalent: Christmas (December 25)). Imbolc - February 1/2 Mark the midpoint between Yule and the spring equinox (Christian Equivalent: Candlemas (February 2)). Ostara (Spring Equinox) - March 20/21 Welcome the return of spring with eggs, rabbits, and feasting (Cristian Equivalent: Easter (movable date, typically in March or April)). Beltane - May 1/2 Honor the spirits of the land and the cycles of nature (Christian Equivalent: May Day (May 1) or Ascension Day (movable date, typically in May)). Litha (Summer Solstice) - June 20/21 Celebrate the peak of the sun's power (Christian Equivalent: St. John's Day (June 24)). Lammas - July 31/August 1 Mark the beginning of harvest time (Christian Equivalent: Feast of the Transfiguration (August 6) or Lammas Sunday (movable date, typically in August)). Mabon (Autumn Equinox) - September 20/21 Celebrate the second harvest (Christian Equivalent: Michaelmas (September 29) or Harvest Festival (movable date, typically in September or October)). Samhain - October 31/November 1 Honor the ancestors (Christian Equivalent: All Saints' Eve (October 31) or All Souls' Day (November 2)) \
--Drudry, like it's eastern branch of Vedism, was heirarchal and divided people into four hierarchical castes: priestly or intellectual caste (Druid = Brahman), warriors (Fláith = Kshatriyas), merchants (Bó-Aire = Vaishyas), workers (Fuidir = Shudras). Unlike Christianity's concept of equality before God, this religion didn't promote universal equality. Rulers or warriors derived their authority from intelligence, strength and lineage, not a universal god. \
--In Masonry, many of the ceremonies of the Druids are preserved in their original state. The Druid caste system also served as the system of grades of initiation in Masonry. Side-note: these organizations (freemasons and other secret societies) gained tremendous power and were able to influence the course of history. Religion is a necessary core value system to form groups, so this is obviously one that works (hierarchical/anti-universalist, exclusive, high in-group preference, etc). \
3\. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secular_paganism [link]. These Pagans don't worship a particular thing, they just appreciate the unity of existence, or seek to understand the ultimate nature of reality. Ancestor veneration is the only worship they do. \
4.\ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jungian_archetypes [link] \
5.\ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Collective_unconscious [link] \
6.\ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Active_imagination#Carl_Gustav_Jung [link] \
7.\ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Individuation#Carl_Jung [link] 

Read more

http://ecer-org.eu \
https://en.metapedia.org/wiki/Portal:Paganism
