---
layout: post
open_links_in_new_tab: true
title:  "Introduction to Monism"
date:   2016-05-01 09:00:00 +0200
category: writing
---

CONTENTS

1 Introduction\
1.1 Cosmology\
1.2 Beliefs\
1.3 Rituals\
2 Conclusion\
3 Footnotes

1 Introduction

Pythagorean Monist cosmology is at the core of several religions: Many Pagan (1) European religions but especially Druidism (2), Vedism, Platonism, and Sufi Islam (Unity of Being, or Wahdat al-Wujud). Pythagoras was a student of Abaris the Hyperborean (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abaris_the_Hyperborean \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abaris_the_Hyperborean)\]) (Druidism), and Vedism is the eastern branch of Druidism that was brought to India by Ram the Druid (Rama in the Vedas) (https://www.academia.edu/13113385/Druidism_and_Vedism_Compared \[[link](https://www.academia.edu/13113385/Druidism_and_Vedism_Compared)\]).

There are only three things that you need to know to understand Monist religions:

1.1 Cosmology

Monism is the philosophical view that all of reality is ultimately one, or that reality is fundamentally unified and that all things are interconnected through a single underlying essence or principle (i.e. materialist/agnostic monists believe this to be energy or matter (3)). Everything in the universe is then seen as emanations or manifestations of this ultimate reality.

1.2 Beliefs

Monist cosmology posits that all phenomena reduces to one principle and the universe is composed of a single fundamental substance. This means that the divine is not a separate and transcendent entity but rather an inherent aspect of the universe, and humans are not separate from the divine but rather an unfolding or manifestation of it. Therefore, in monist cosmologies, self-realization or self-actualization is often seen as the process of recognizing and embodying one's true nature as an expression of the divine. This can be seen as a form of self-deification.

1.3 Rituals

Rituals: In monist religions, rituals are about bringing someone to self-realization. For example, rituals like yoga, meditation, self-inquiry, and mantra recitation are used to help the individual realize their true nature as a manifestation of the divine. The goal is to awaken the individual's inner divinity and is aimed at helping the individual realize their true nature as the ultimate reality.

2 Conclusion

Take this simple framework and then add in your ancestral traditions. For example, Druidism is the religion that was subverted to make Christianity, so Christians going to Druidism can continue celebrating the same traditions, symbolism, and holidays (4), just with a monist cosmology.

3 Footnotes

1\. "Pagan" (Latin: pāgānus, 'rural') was supposed to be a slur that was invented by the catholic church to apply to every non-xtian religion but has since been reappropriated as a general term. Specific ethnic "Pagan" polytheistic religions are: Heathenry is Germanic Paganism ("Asatru" is one of the religions that fall under the Heathenry category). Fyrnsidu is Brittonic Paganism. Druidry is Celtic Paganism. Hellenism is Greek Paganism. Religio Romana is Roman Paganism. Rodnovery is Slavic Paganism. Romuva is Baltic Paganism, etc. Every polytheistic ancestral European religion is similar, the deities just have different regional names (Dyaus Pita (Vedic), Zeus (Greek), Jupiter (Roman), Odin (Nordic), Wotan (German), Esus (Celtic), Wotanaz (Slavic), Ukko and Väinämöinen (Finnish), and so on are all derived from the Aryan allfather Dyeus Pter which translates to Sky Father. The name Zeus comes from the pronunciation of Dyeus, and Jupiter comes from the pronunciation of 'Dyeus Pter'. Wotan is derived from Proto-Germanic Wodanaz, which itself comes from the Proto-Indo-European root Dyeus. Odin comes from Old Norse and is related to the earlier Proto-Germanic Wodanaz) \
2\. "And the Celtic Druids investigated to the very highest point the Pythagorean philosophy, after Zamolxis, by birth a Thracian, a servant of Pythagoras, became to them the originator of this philosophy"_ -- 'The Refutation of All Heresies', Chapter XXII.--The Druids; Progenitors of their System by St. Hippolytus. Diodorus Siculus, Book V, §26-32 (36 BCE), and Alexander Cornelius Polyhistor, among other contemporaneous sources, also refer to the Druids as "Pythagorean". \
3\. There are different types of monism: materialistic monists believe that everything is made of matter, and even things like thoughts or consciousness are just products of physical processes. This view aligns with atheism. Idealistic monism is the opposite, where everything is fundamentally mental or spiritual, and the physical world is a manifestation of mind or consciousness. Neutral monism posits that there's a single substance or principle from which both mind and matter arise, but it's neither purely mental nor purely physical. Ancient European religions were Dharmic (non-dogmatic), so the cosmology was always left up to the follower. This is also seen in Vedism, and this is why monism has the broadest appeal; atheists, theists, polytheists, et.al., can find meaning in these religions. Religion is a necessary core value system to form groups, so the important thing is that the beliefs and rituals promote tradition, a shared culture, and a sense of community. \
--'Henotheism' is how monist cosmology applies to polytheistic European religions: Monism is the philosophical position that there is only one fundamental substance or reality, while henotheism is the worship of one god while acknowledging the existence of other gods. In a monist-henotheist system, the one substance or ultimate reality (the monad) could be considered the supreme or highest deity, with lower deities or gods being allegorical personifications of natural forces (numen/animism) or manifestations or emanations of this ultimate reality. This would mean that the lower deities are not separate, independent entities, but rather symbolic expressions of the one underlying substance.\
4\. Druidic Calendar: Yule (Winter Solstice) - December 21/22 Celebrate the rebirth of the sun (Christian Equivalent: Christmas (December 25)). Imbolc - February 1/2 Mark the midpoint between Yule and the spring equinox (Christian Equivalent: Candlemas (February 2)). Ostara (Spring Equinox) - March 20/21 Welcome the return of spring with eggs, rabbits, and feasting (Cristian Equivalent: Easter (movable date, typically in March or April)). Beltane - May 1/2 Honor the spirits of the land and the cycles of nature (Christian Equivalent: May Day (May 1) or Ascension Day (movable date, typically in May)). Litha (Summer Solstice) - June 20/21 Celebrate the peak of the sun's power (Christian Equivalent: St. John's Day (June 24)). Lammas - July 31/August 1 Mark the beginning of harvest time (Christian Equivalent: Feast of the Transfiguration (August 6) or Lammas Sunday (movable date, typically in August)). Mabon (Autumn Equinox) - September 20/21 Celebrate the second harvest (Christian Equivalent: Michaelmas (September 29) or Harvest Festival (movable date, typically in September or October)). Samhain - October 31/November 1 Honor the ancestors (Christian Equivalent: All Saints' Eve (October 31) or All Souls' Day (November 2)) \
--Drudry, like it's eastern branch of Vedism, was heirarchal and divided people into four hierarchical castes: priestly or intellectual caste (Druid = Brahman), warriors (Fláith = Kshatriyas), merchants (Bó-Aire = Vaishyas), workers (Fuidir = Shudras). Unlike Christianity's concept of equality before God, this religion didn't promote universal equality. Rulers or warriors derived their authority from intelligence, strength and lineage, not a universal god. In Masonry, many of the ceremonies of the Druids are preserved in their original state. The Druid caste system also served as the system of grades of initiation in Masonry.
