---
layout: post
open_links_in_new_tab: true
title:  "Introduction to Druidism"
date:   2016-05-01 09:00:00 +0200
category: blog
---

CONTENTS

1 Druidism\
1.1 Cosmology\
1.2 Beliefs\
1.3 Rituals\
2 Footnotes

1 Druidism

The word 'Druid' (1) derives from the Celtic term uidtu (related to knowledge or science) and aligns with the Indo-European root wid/weid which means to see, know, or perceive. This is where we get words like "wisdom" and "wizard. "Dru- (interpreted as "true") and wid (knowledge) therefore can be translated as "knower of science" or "knower of truth", a cognate of the Sanskrit Veda. Druid = Drvo (Slavic) = Dhruva (Sanskrit). Druidism was the religion that was subverted to make christianity. The Galatians of Anatolia were Celtics who followed Druidism and these people then became the elites of Rome (Julius Caesar (his title) = Asander of Bosphorus). Druidism was then subverted by a group of rabbi's who were headed by a rabbi named Akiva around the time of the Bar Kohiba revolt (132–136 CE) and this became christianity. See: On the Origins of Christianity \[[link](https://lunalucifera.org/on-the-origins-of-christianity/)\]. Converting christians to Druidism should be easy as it is the foundation for their religion with the same deity (Esus/Esos/Hesus/Aisus/Iesus \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Esus)\] (2)), symbolism (the Celtic Cross) (3), rituals and holidays (4), but without the old testament and proto-bolshevism slave-morality.

There are only three things that you need to know to understand Druidry:

1.1 Cosmology

The founder of Druidry was Pythagoras (5) who was a student of a philosopher named Abaris the Hyperborean \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abaris_the_Hyperborean)\] (probably the same person (6)) who was a Scythian who hailed from Hyperborea: _"And the Celtic Druids investigated to the very highest point the Pythagorean philosophy, after Zamolxis, by birth a Thracian, a servant of Pythagoras, became to them the originator of this philosophy"_ (7) -- 'The Refutation of All Heresies', Chapter XXII.--The Druids; Progenitors of their System by St. Hippolytus. 

So, the Druid cosmology was Pythagorian monism \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monism)\]. Monism is the philosophical view that all of reality is ultimately one, or that reality is fundamentally unified and that all things are interconnected through a single underlying essence or principle (i.e. materialist/agnostic monists believe this to be energy or matter (8)). Everything in the universe is then seen as emanations or manifestations of this ultimate reality.

1.2 Beliefs

Monist cosmology posits that all phenomena reduces to one principle and the universe is composed of a single fundamental substance. This means that the divine is not a separate and transcendent entity but rather an inherent aspect of the universe, and humans are not separate from the divine but rather an unfolding or manifestation of it. Therefore, in monist cosmologies, self-realization or self-actualization is often seen as the process of recognizing and embodying one's true nature as an expression of the divine. This can be seen as a form of self-deification.

1.3 Rituals

In monist religions, rituals are about bringing someone to self-realization. For example, rituals and practices like yoga, meditation, self-inquiry, and mantra recitation are used to help the individual realize their true nature as a manifestation of the divine. The goal is to awaken the individual's inner divinity and are aimed at helping the individual realize their true nature as the ultimate reality.

2 Footnotes

1\. The Druids were the Brahmans of the West, and the Vedas are Druidism that was brought to India by the Ram the Druid [[link](https://www.angelfire.com/folk/boutios/Dhruveda.html)\] who is Rama in the Vedas who is a major deity and worshipped as the seventh avatar of Vishnu. He was succeded by Krishna as the eighth deity of Vishnu (Krishna and Christ come from the same Indo-European word) \
--Drudry, like it's eastern branch of Vedism, was heirarchal and divided people into four hierarchical castes: priestly or intellectual caste (Druid = Brahman), warriors (Fláith = Kshatriyas), merchants (Bó-Aire = Vaishyas), workers (Fuidir = Shudras). Unlike Christianity's concept of equality before God, this religion didn't promote universal equality. Rulers or warriors derived their authority from intelligence, strength and lineage, not a universal god. The Druid caste system served as the system of grades of initiation in Freemasonry. \
2.\ In monist cosmology, polytheistic deities (Dyeus Pter/Zeus/Jupiter/Iesus/et.al.) are often viewed as manifestations or aspects of the single fundamental substance or reality. They are not seen as separate, independent entities, but rather as different expressions or facets of the ultimate reality. Essentially, symbolic representations of various aspects of the universe or human experience, or a particular aspect of the universe, such as creation, destruction, love, or wisdom, but ultimately, they are all seen as expressions of the same underlying reality. Ex. the Sky Father archetype, such as Dyeus Pter/Esus/et.al, often represents the ultimate reality or the single fundamental substance that underlies all existence. \
3\. The Celtic Cross or high cross predates christianity by thousands of years \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Callanish_Stones)\]. The circle is a sunwheel that together with the cross served as a sundial that had markings to track the time, date, and lunar and agricultural cycles. Also, in portable form it was a compass. The Norse used the sun cross or solar wheel for the same purposes. Although not a religious symbol, as they were astronomical tools, every city in ancient Europe would have had a large cross raised at its center. You can see how christianity spread throughout Europe, through subversion. Most Europeans must have thought that christianity was simply the same religion they were already worshiping, and because of widespread illiteracy at the time, they had no idea what garbage was inside the bible.\
4\. Druidic Calendar: Yule (Winter Solstice) - December 21/22 Celebrate the rebirth of the sun (Christian Equivalent: Christmas (December 25)). Imbolc - February 1/2 Mark the midpoint between Yule and the spring equinox (Christian Equivalent: Candlemas (February 2)). Ostara (Spring Equinox) - March 20/21 Welcome the return of spring with eggs, rabbits, and feasting (Cristian Equivalent: Easter (movable date, typically in March or April)). Beltane - May 1/2 Honor the spirits of the land and the cycles of nature (Christian Equivalent: May Day (May 1) or Ascension Day (movable date, typically in May)). Litha (Summer Solstice) - June 20/21 Celebrate the peak of the sun's power (Christian Equivalent: St. John's Day (June 24)). Lammas - July 31/August 1 Mark the beginning of harvest time (Christian Equivalent: Feast of the Transfiguration (August 6) or Lammas Sunday (movable date, typically in August)). Mabon (Autumn Equinox) - September 20/21 Celebrate the second harvest (Christian Equivalent: Michaelmas (September 29) or Harvest Festival (movable date, typically in September or October)). Samhain - October 31/November 1 Honor the ancestors (Christian Equivalent: All Saints' Eve (October 31) or All Souls' Day (November 2)).\
5\. 'The Refutation of All Heresies', Chapter XXII.--The Druids; Progenitors of their System by St. Hippolytus, Diodorus Siculus, Book V, §26-32 (36 BCE), and Alexander Cornelius Polyhistor, among other contemporaneous sources, all refer to the Druids as "Pythagorean".\
6\. The high priestess of the Temple of Apollo at Delphi was called Pythia  \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pythia)\]. Greek writers regarded the Hyperboreans as the mythical founders of Apollo's shrines at Delos and Delphi  \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hyperborea#Hyperboreans_in_Delos)\]. The name "Pythagoras" is derived from the Greek words "Pythios" (Πύθιος), meaning "of Pythia" or "belonging to the Pythia ("Pythoness"), so Pythia was probably his mother. \
--Hyperborea, which just like Atlantis, was another name for Ireland. The word Atlantis means ‘The Island of Atlas’. The titan Atlas was a key figure in Greek mythology and is depicted as being the  bearer of the heavens. According to early Greek mythology, Atlas lived  on the sacred island of Hyperborea. Over time Hyperborea became Hybernia or Hibernia, the Roman name for Ireland.\
--Pythagori in Welsh means "explication of the universe" or "cosmogony" \[[link](https://books.google.co.uk/books?id=_8tcAAAAcAAJ&pg=PA126&lpg=PA126&dq=pythagori+the+meaning+of+the+universe+in+welsh&source=bl&ots=Qyp388JxZ9&sig=ACfU3U0SV77Pow0dxZm5zf_4EmXLJV8OBA&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwiT8PLs17nqAhUFzqQKHQWcAZMQ6AEwC3oECA0QAQ#v=onepage&q=pythagori%20the%20meaning%20of%20the%20universe%20in%20welsh&f=false)\] \
7\. Zalmoxis was another name of Sabazius, the Thracian version of Zeus. Also, Zalmoxis, or Zalmox or Zalmos, can also be pronounced Salmos which is very close to the Aramaic and Hebrew pronunciation of Solomon. Abraham = 'Ram the Druid', a seer who cured his tribe with mistletoe. He was exiled and took an army with him. He created the caste system in India, created the Magi in Persia. 'A Brahman', a Vedic spiritual leader/teacher, comes from him (he is also Ra in Egyptian mythology. Abrahamn (Abraham = Ab Ram, or 'Born of Ram') in the bible. Ram the Aries. Ram/Ramos the Druid. Rama in the Vedas. In Tibet he is Lama. King David (DWD) = King Druid; the jews stole their entire religion from the Celtic Druids in Galatia. \
--The religion of the ancient Romans was created by Numa Pompilius, the second king of Rome. He was taught by Pythagoras. That is probably why all these ancient religions are analogous. \
8\. There are different types of monism: materialistic monists believe that everything is made of matter, and even things like thoughts or consciousness are just products of physical processes. Physicalist monism is a variant of materialistic monism where everything is ultimately physical or dependent on physical states. This view aligns with atheism. Idealistic monism is the opposite, where everything is fundamentally mental or spiritual, and the physical world is a manifestation of mind or consciousness. Neutral monism posits that there's a single substance or principle from which both mind and matter arise, but it's neither purely mental nor purely physical. Pantheistic monism posits that the universe, nature, or the cosmos itself is identical with the divine or God. Ancient European religions were Dharmic (non-dogmatic), so the cosmology was always left up to the follower. This is also seen in Vedism. The important thing is that the beliefs and rituals promoted tradition, a shared culture, and a sense of community. \


Read more:  

https://www.academia.edu/13113385/Druidism_and_Vedism_Compared \[[link](https://www.academia.edu/13113385/Druidism_and_Vedism_Compared)\]  
