---
layout: default
open_links_in_new_tab: true
title:  "The Christian Slave Morality: Nietzsche's Critique and the Christian Blueprint for Domestication"
date:   2018-08-11 09:00:00 +0200
updated: 2024-08-11 19:46:50 +0200
category: blog
---

The Christian Slave Morality: Nietzsche's Critique and the Christian Blueprint for Domestication

By Ralph Perrier

_"Do not suppose that I have come to bring peace to the earth. I did not come to bring peace, but a sword. For I have come to turn a man against his father, a daughter against her mother, a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law, a man’s enemies will be the members of his own household"_ -- Matthew 10:34-36\

_Do you think I came to bring peace on earth? No, I tell you, but division. From now on there will be five in one family divided against each other, three against two and two against three. They will be divided, father against son and son against father, mother against daughter and daughter against mother, mother-in-law against daughter-in-law and daughter-in-law against mother-in-law._ -- Luke 12:51

Preface\
Introduction\
Part 1: The Theoretical Framework\
1 Foundations of Christian Slave Morality and Nietzschean Critique\
2 Monotheism and Universalism as Tools of Control\
3 Nietzsche’s Triad: Slave Morality, Transvaluation of Values, and Ressentiment\
Part 2: Christianity as the Engine of Domestication\
4 Survival of the Weakest: Inverting Natural Selection \
5 Tools of Herd Domestication\
Footnotes

---

**Preface**

Christianity was not a revelation but a deliberate psychological weapon—a 'slave morality' system engineered to domesticate populations by destroying ethnic bonds, inverting natural hierarchies, and turning the weak against the strong. It is an alien, parasitic theological software designed to overwrite the native human operating system. This program of ethnic and spiritual suicide did not end with secularization; it simply found new hosts. Marxism, Critical Theory, and the modern Woke creed are not opponents of Christianity—they are its heretical children, a secular reformation that has perfected the ancient art of mass domestication by replacing the cross with the rainbow flag and the priest with the Diversity Consultant.

Christianity culminated from centuries of scribal work by imperial elites, who built on earlier slave morality religions, with one of these slave morality religions being codified at the Alexandrian School in Egypt under Philo of Alexandria. The goal was to spread a religion to the slaves that advanced monotheism, centralized texts and priesthoods, ethos like renoucing worldy possessions, asceticism, shame and guilt, you will be rewarded in the afterlife for your earthly suffering, etc. These imperial cults were by design slave moralities to strip the will to power from the population to prevent rebellions.

**Introduction**

Every single species on earth works towards the preservation and strengthening of its bloodline, from bonobos to pin oaks to jellyfish. Every single one. It is only through the domesticating forces of universal religions (Buddhism, Christianity, and Islam) that man has been able to 'overcome' these natural and deep biological drives and act in ways that are neutral or actually harm the reproductive success of his genes and offspring. Because of these universalizing religions, western man is an animal in the process of domestication. 

**Part 1: The Theoretical Framework**

**1 Foundations of Christian Slave Morality and Nietzschean Critique**

Christianity is a sophisticated divide-and-conquer millenarianist (belief in a future utopia) (1) slave morality (2) system that is packaged as a religion. The system works by weaponizing the lowest "chandala" (3) castes as Friedrich Nietzsche called them (outcastes and untouchables in the Hindu caste system) of society to attack and overthrow the aristocratic and warrior castes (4); and secondly, the christian system contains within it a pacifist slave morality system that is designed to transvaluate a groups aristocratic and warrior values while turning these aristocratic and warrior castes into obedient and submissive slaves.  

**2 Monotheism and Universalism as Tools of Control**

The shift from decentralized pagan tribalism (diverse, hierarchical polytheistic gods reflecting aristocratic values) to centralized monotheism (singular truth-claim) mirrors political consolidation. The collectivization of divine authority then reinforces a universal morality. Everything becomes collectivized with the centralization of power. This makes a group easier to control and is why monotheism mirrors autocratic governance. \
&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;       Monotheism parallels the rise of autocratic states because it mirrors the consolidation of power into a single ruler, conditioning populations for top-down governance over decentralized tribal autonomy. Monotheism traces back to the slave morality of Zoroastrianism at the time when Cyrus the Great assumes total power of Persia, and in Rome as the Roman Republic turns into the Roman Empire headed by a singular dictator, Julius Caesar.  \
 &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;       Christian universalism derives from monotheism. The universalization of a group into a singular monolith not only allows a group to become top-down controlled, but it also becomes a tool of empowerment for the oppressed through the leveling of social distinctions. Friedrich Nietzsche believed that the universalistic claims of Christianity allowed the lower classes, or "chandala", to feel equal to the higher classes. The "all is one" doctrine incentivizes the inclusion of outcastes and when combined with an emphasis on a shared humanity and a common destiny in the afterlife this system undermines traditional social hierarchies that were traditionally based on biological kinship, intelligence, wealth, or power.  \
&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;        Christian universalism also led to ethnic erasure. The catholic church deliberately destroyed ethnic customs and beliefs to emphasize the universality of Christianity. Pre-Christian Europe was a patchwork of ethnicities, each with its own gods and traditions and christianity deliberately destroyed these ethnic bonds so that a religious identity replaced an ethnic identity. "Christendom" then became the first universalized identity that was built around a shared morality that transcended ethnic and cultural boundaries. "Christendom" was then replaced by the word "European" after the enlightenment, but that label still retained Christendom's universal nature. "European" like "Christendom" is a state and political identity, as opposed to an ethnic or national identity, and the adoption of this universalist identity destroyed what little of specific ethnic European customs and traditions that were left. 

**3 Nietzsche’s Triad: Slave Morality, Transvaluation of Values, and Ressentiment**

Friedrich Nietzsche’s concepts of slave morality, transvaluation of values, and "ressentiment" are central to understanding Christianity’s subversive power. 

The slave morality aspect of Christianity is designed to suppress an individual's will to power (life’s essential drive/will to expand or grow/self overcoming). When an individual is unable to express their will to power in a constructive, outward manner, they redirect this energy inward, manifesting as self-destructive tendencies. This is what Friedrich Nietzsche called a "slave morality" where the individual's creative and life-affirming energies are turned against themselves. As a result, in Christianity, many people's will to power becomes directed inward, becoming satiated through masochistic self-harm. This twisted form of self-assertion can be observed in various aspects of human behavior, from the self-flagellating tendencies of Christianity to the equally destructive habits of self-sabotage and addiction. If the individual's will to power is unable to find an external outlet it turns inward, creating a perverse cycle of self-inflicted pain and suffering.\
&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;        Friedrich Nietzsche's concept of the "transvaluation of values" is also central to understanding how Christianity reshaped societal norms and supresses an individuals will to power. This theory states that traditional christian values, which emphasize humility, selflessness, guilt and pity, were created to undermine the strong. Essentially, by redefining "good" as virtues of the "chandala", i.e., by replacing a groups aristocratic values with "chandala" values: guilt, pity, self-hate, weakness, and victimhood/oppression replace strength, pride, honor, loyalty, family, race, and tradition, etc., essentially through vilifying the powerful the lowest "chandala" castes can become the nobility. This leads to a culture that celebrates mediocrity while demonizing excellence.\
&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;        As for Nietzsche's concept of "Ressentiment", in his book 'On the Genealogy of Morality' (1887) he wrote that the jews (5), who he claimed are motivated by deep resentment and hatred (6), create these "slave morality" systems (7) to weaponise the "Ressentiment" of the lowest "chandala" castes (8). This is what makes the system self-policing and self-regulating. This is designed to pit the weak against the strong, with the chandala encouraged to “sacrifice” the aristocratic castes on the altar of moral superiority, as seen in historical revolutions.\
&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;     Monotheism (binary opposition between good vs. evil), universalism, the transvaluation of traditional ethnic values, and the concept of sin all exist to self-deify and weaponize the lowest castes. This allows the slaves and lower castes to feel morally and socially superior to the higher castes because of the concept of sin and set commandments of behavior. The savior complex (9) is a subset of christian self-deification and is a heritage of monotheism and messianism (10). Self-deification (11) is the foundation for attacking those that are identified as heretics (12) and redeeming others.

  

See also: [Ressentiment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ressentiment), [Conflict Theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conflict_theories), and [Class Conflict](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Class_conflict)

**Part 2: Christianity as the Engine of Domestication**

**4 Survival of the Weakest: Inverting Natural Selection**

_“Christianity has waged a war to the death against this higher type of man; it has excommunicated all the fundamental instincts of this type, it has distilled evil, the Evil One, out of these instincts—the strong human being as the typically reprehensible, the ‘reprobate.’ Christianity has taken the side of everything weak, base, ill-constituted, it has made an ideal out of opposition to the preservative instincts of strong life; it has corrupted the reason even of the intellectually strongest natures by teaching men to feel the supreme values of intellectuality as sinful, as misleading, as temptations.”_ --  Friedrich Nietzsche - The Antichrist (Section 50) 

High-status males in hierarchical societies (e.g., chieftains, warriors) often had greater access to females, either through polygyny or social prestige. This amplified the genetic spread of traits associated with dominance. Christianity disrupted this dynamic by redefining “fitness” in moral rather than biological terms. By exalting humility, meekness, and self-denial as virtues, it created a cultural selection pressure that rewarded individuals who exhibited traits maladaptive in competitive contexts. For instance, through the transvaluation traditional values based on heirarchy and power, and through glorifying the meek and downtrodden, Christianity incentivized the survival and reproduction of traits (e.g., passivity, low ambition) that natural selection would typically cull.\
&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;     Also, through the Church’s promotion of celibacy (e.g., for priests, monks, and nuns) and antinatalist teachings (e.g., Matthew 19:11-12, praising eunuchs) disproportionately affected high-status and highly intelligent individuals who were drawn to religious vocations. This removed dominant, intelligent, and ambitious individuals from the gene pool, reducing the prevalence of traits associated with leadership and vitality.\
&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;     Over centuries, these relaxed conditions of natural selection led to traits like aggression and dominance being bred out of Europeans. \
&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;     This is likely the cause of the pathological altruism phenomenon that is seen in the west today. Christianity’s emphasis on charity and loving one’s enemies fostered what evolutionary psychologists call pathological altruism—self-destructive behaviors that benefit others at the expense of one’s own in-group.   

**5 Tools of Herd Domestication**

_The concept of "God" invented as a counterconcept of life—everything harmful, poisonous, slanderous, the whole hostility unto death against life synthesized in this concept in a gruesome unity! The concept of the "beyond," the "true world" invented in order to devaluate the only world there is—in order to retain no goal, no reason, no task for our earthly reality! The concept of the "soul," the "spirit," finally even "immortal soul," invented in order to despise the body, to make it sick, "holy"; to oppose with a ghastly levity everything that deserves to be taken seriously in life, the questions of nourishment, abode, spiritual diet, treatment of the sick, cleanliness, and weather.In place of health, the "salvation of the soul"—that is, a folie circulaire [manic-depressive insanity] between penitential convulsions and hysteria about redemption. The concept of "sin" invented along with the torture instrument that belongs with it, the concept of "free will," in order to confuse the instincts, to make mistrust of the instincts second nature. In the concept of the "selfless," the "self-denier," the distinctive sign of decadence, feeling attracted by what is harmful, being unable to find any longer what profits one, self-destruction is turned into the sign of value itself, into "duty," into "holiness," into what is "divine" in man. Finally—this is what is most terrible of all—the concept of the good man signifies that one sides with all that is weak, sick, failure, suffering of itself—all that ought to perish: the principle of selection is crossed—an ideal is fabricated from the contradiction against the proud and well-turned-out human being who says Yes, who is sure of the future, who guarantees the future—and he is now called evil.— And all this was believed, as morality!— Ecrasez l'infame!—— [Voltaire's motto: "Crush the infamy!"]_ - Friedrich Nietzsche. Ecce Homo.

While Christianity empowers the 'chandala' caste through universalism and the 'transvaluation of values', thereby elevating them to a position of authority over the aristocratic and warrior castes, it also functions as a system of domestication. This system is designed to instill fear, self-loathing, and a loss of autonomy in its adherents, while fostering feelings of guilt, shame, and intellectual apathy. By discouraging critical thinking and intellectual curiosity, which are seen as threats to faith, Christianity creates a culture that devalues learning and promotes a mentality of subservience (this is the reason why every Christian white trash town is filled with people whose culture is built around a contempt for learning) (13). Furthermore, this system can lead to a disconnection from one's ancestral heritage and genetic identity. Ultimately, it seeks to create a population that is obedient and submissive, with a subconscious affinity for Jewish culture. It does this through:

  

*   Centrality of the Crucifixion: The crucifixion of Jesus is the ultimate blood sacrifice, framed as a necessary atonement for humanity’s sins (e.g., Hebrews 9:22: "Without the shedding of blood, there is no forgiveness"). This reinforces a cult of suffering: salvation is achieved through self destruction, teaching followers to valorize pain and victimhood.
*   Self-Destruction as Virtue: Matthew 16:25: "Whoever wants to save their life will lose it, but whoever loses their life for me will find it.". This inverts survival instincts. Self-annihilation (martyrdom, asceticism) is glorified as the path to purity
*   Ritual circumcision: children enduring the excruciating pain of circumcision immediately after birth imprints permanent psychological harm and predisposes a child to fear and anxiety. Ritual circumcision creates a trauma bond between the child and the system, imprinting submission at birth and linking physical pain to spiritual loyalty -- a hallmark of domestication.
*   Emphasis on Suffering: Christian narratives focus on the suffering of Christ and the martyrs which glorifies weakness and passivity making it seem more virtuous to endure suffering than to overcome it. This is a way for the the oppressed to find validation in their hardships.
*   Fear and punishment/trauma based mind-control programming: the concept of "hell" that they plagiarized from Plato's Republic (the 'Myth of Er' (14)); the lifelong fear of death (Pagans equated death with glory). Also, reward. The concept of "heaven" for asceticism/suffering/obedience.
*   Erasure of Ancestral Pride: Christianity’s rejection of pagan traditions (e.g., burning of sacred groves, destruction of temples) severs ties to ancestral heritage, replacing it with a universal religious identity. This disconnects populations from their historical will to power, making them rootless and pliable
*   Omniscient god: the concept of a self-existant or panopticon god who can read your thoughts and judge your behavior becomes a behavior regulating mechanism.
*   Group polarization (15).
*   Guilt and shame: Instilling guilt and shame complexes from birth and then offering a program of "salvation" to cleanse you of that guilt and shame (through working against your own tribal and familial interests). Christians are brainwashed into believing that they are sinners (there are dozens of types) and that they were born with Original Sin (sin you inherit from simply being born). The result of this is a pathological need to seek approval from others. This need for approval is a pathology similar to what is sometimes found in battered women who are sure that if they show their abuser how good they’re being the abuser will cease his abuse.
*   Demonizing sexual desire (e.g., labeling lust a sin, exalting virginity, praising celibacy): this redirects primal energy away from reproduction and toward self-denial. This serves two purposes: first, it weakens the strong by discouraging procreation among high-status individuals (priests, nuns, and devout laypeople), reducing the genetic spread of traits like ambition or intelligence. Second, it creates a constant state of guilt, as sexual desire is inescapable, ensuring believers remain in a cycle of shame and repentance.
*   Salvation through submission: Christianity boils down to "believe in Jesus and you win". This world is only a temporary test, which is why Jesus explicitly says "do not resist evil". Anyone who believes in Jesus will be eternally rewarded when they die. It doesn't matter if this world is destroyed by evil, sinners will be punished one day, and Jesus will eventually fix everything.
*   Humility, self-denial, and ascetic ideal: Christianity exalts humility and self-denial as virtues. These values encourage individuals to reject their innate desires for power and achievement. By promoting meekness and self-abnegation, Christianity suppresses the natural inclination to assert oneself and strive for greatness. This leads to a passive and submissive attitude, undermining one's potential for growth and excellence. This is designed to suppress the "will to power" and control the masses.
*   Pathologization of Pride: Pride, a natural driver of ambition and self-assertion, is framed as a deadly sin (e.g., Proverbs 16:18), redirecting self-esteem into self-doubt and submission.
*   Moral absolutism: The insistence on absolute moral truths fosters a binary worldview, reducing complex human experiences into simplistic categories of good and evil. This moral absolutism undermines the individual's ability to navigate ethical dilemmas through personal judgment.
*   Learned helplessness: no matter how enslaved and exploited you are you shouldn't resist because a savior will eventually come rescue you if you pray hard enough, and if a savior doesn't come, you will be rewarded when you die.
*   Penance: Evangelism and missionary work as part of a program of salvation that will expiate your guilt. Evangelism makes the psyop self-perpetuating.
*   Repetitive behaviors: The repetitive nature of Christian practices (prayer, confession, Eucharist) mirrors operant conditioning in domesticated animals, where repetitive tasks ensure compliance..
*   Prayer: The purpose of prayer is to reinforce the brainwashing (guilt, shame, fear) by continually repeating directed affirmations.
*   Confession: To further reinforce the guilt and shame complexes by continually confessing guilt. Confession also creates a religious commandment that turns its followers into informants, exposes traitors to the church or state, exposes rebellions, and makes the system self-regulating. Confession also ritualizes humiliation, conditioning individuals to accept subservience as a moral good.
*   Devaluation of Material Wealth: Christianity’s condemnation of wealth (e.g., “easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle,” Matthew 19:24), usury bans, poverty glorified, discourages the accumulation of resources, which is a key driver of power and independence.

Themes and symbols that parallel an animal being domesticated also fill the bible. For example, the concept of "sheep" and "shepherds"; In the New Testament, Jesus often refers to himself as a shepherd (e.g., John 10:11, Matthew 9:36) and his followers as sheep. This language reinforces the idea of a hierarchical relationship, where the shepherd guides and controls the behavior of the flock, much like a domesticated animal might be managed by its owner. The idea of "training" and "discipline"; In the New Testament, Jesus and his apostles often use language related to training and discipline (e.g., Hebrews 12:11, 1 Corinthians 9:27). This can be seen as a parallel to the process of domesticating an animal, where the animal is trained to obey commands and respond to stimuli in a predictable way. The concept of "submission" and "obedience"; Throughout the New Testament, followers of Jesus are encouraged to submit to his authority and obey his teachings (e.g., Matthew 7:21, John 14:15). This can be seen as a form of behavioral conditioning, where individuals are taught to associate certain behaviors with reward or punishment, much like a domesticated animal might be trained. The idea of "being transformed"; In the New Testament, followers of Jesus are encouraged to undergo a transformation, becoming "new creations" (2 Corinthians 5:17) and putting on a "new self" (Ephesians 4:24). This can be seen as a parallel to the process of domesticating an animal, where the animal's behavior and nature are altered through training and conditioning. "I will not venture to speak of anything except what Christ has accomplished through me to bring the Gentiles to obedience" (Romans 15:18) - Paul the Apostle. \
      &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; This was a clever divide-and-conquer strategy. Build a coalition of the outcastes of society and then weaponize them to attack the warrior and aristocratic castes while simultaneously transvaluating their aristocratic cultural values to subvert them. This was the formula that was used in Rome, the French Revolution \[[link](https://en.metapedia.org/wiki/French_Revolution)\], Revolutions of 1848 \[[link](https://www.jstor.org/stable/4615300)\], Russian Revolution \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russian_Revolution)\], and attempted in the German Revolution \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/German_Revolution_of_1918%E2%80%931919)\]. Each of these revolutions empowered and weaponized the outcastes of society with a unifying slave-morality ideology (Marxism/Bolshevism/Leftism are simply secular variants of christianity). \
        This system was also integral to European colonialism. Before the colonial powers sent the military they sent the missionaries. Through christianity, they weaponized the outcastes to fight the warrior castes. Then, christianity placated the native populations by preventing any rebellion (the lowest outcastes self-policed the warrior castes who had their warrior values "transvaluated" and the population eventually succumbed to the thought that they would be rewarded when they die if they submitted).


See also: [Tschandala](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tschandala), [Master–slave morality](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Master%E2%80%93slave_morality), and [Transvaluation of values](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transvaluation_of_values)  

---

**Footnotes*

1. Millenarianism. Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Millenarianism \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Millenarianism)\]  
2. Master–slave morality. Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Master%E2%80%93slave\_morality \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Master–slave_morality)\]  
3. Tschandala. Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tschandala \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tschandala)\]  
4. Ressentiment. Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ressentiment \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ressentiment)\]  
5. On the Genealogy of Morality. Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/On\_the\_Genealogy\_of\_Morality \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/On_the_Genealogy_of_Morality)\]  
6. ibid. First Treatise. Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/On\_the\_Genealogy\_of\_Morality#First\_Treatise:\_%22%27Good\_and\_Evil%27,\_%27Good\_and\_Bad%27%22 \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/On_the_Genealogy_of_Morality#First_Treatise:_%22%27Good_and_Evil%27,_%27Good_and_Bad%27%22)\]  
7. Master-Slave Morality. Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Master%E2%80%93slave\_morality \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Master%E2%80%93slave_morality)\]  
8. Priesthood of all believers. Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Priesthood\_of\_all\_believers \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Priesthood_of_all_believers)\]  
--Apotheosis. Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apotheosis#Christianity \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apotheosis#Christianity)\]  
--Self-deification in Biblical Texts. Bible interp. (n.d.). https://bibleinterp.arizona.edu/articles/2016/08/lit408016 \[[link](https://bibleinterp.arizona.edu/articles/2016/08/lit408016)\]  
9. White savior. Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/White\_savior \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/White_savior)\]  
10. Messianism. Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Messianism \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Messianism)\]  
11. Heresy in Christianity. Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heresy\_in\_Christianity \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heresy_in_Christianity)\]  
12. Christian mission. Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christian\_mission \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christian_mission)\]  
13. Quotes from Martin Luther:  
--"Reason must be deluded, blinded, and destroyed. Faith must trample underfoot all reason, sense, and understanding, and whatever it sees must be put out of sight and … know nothing but the word of God."  
--"There is on earth among all dangers no more dangerous thing than a richly endowed and adroit reason…"  
--"Reason should be destroyed in all Christians."  
--"Whoever wants to be a Christian should tear the eyes out of his Reason."  
--Martin Luther was also behind the invention of the Prussian educational system \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prussian_education_system)\], i.e. the western system of education. A teacher at the front of the class replicates a priest, a classroom replicates a church, constant tests to show that you memorized the teaching (never tested on your ability to apply learned information in creative ways), this is all designed to strip students of critical thinking ability and turn them into stupid and obedient slaves. See also: Luther's Large Catechism \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luther%27s_Large_Catechism)\]  
--The catholic church even banned the teaching of philosophy in Europe as it was deemed "heretical" \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Index_Librorum_Prohibitorum)\] \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Condemnations_of_1210–1277)\]  
14. Myth of Er. Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Myth\_of\_Er \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Myth_of_Er)\]
--Biblical hell also refers to Gehenna in Israel where they did child sacrifices \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gehenna)\]
15. Friedrich Nietzsche claimed that slave moralities \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Master%E2%80%93slave_morality)\] (xtianity, Buddhism, liberalism, etc.) allowed the chandala castes to triumph over the aristocratic and warrior castes in ancient India and in Rome and he predicted that they would eventually allow them to overtake the entire west which is what you see today \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Last_man)\]. Ex. the lowest scum chandala are empowered to destroy all progress in their attempt to gain moral and social supremacy over the higher castes. See: Master–slave morality \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Master%E2%80%93slave_morality)\], Tschandala \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tschandala)\], Transvaluation of values \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transvaluation_of_values)\], Nietzschean affirmation \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nietzschean_affirmation)\], and Ressentiment \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ressentiment)\]. See also: Last Man \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Last_man)\]  
Quotes from Friedrich Nietzsche:  
--"Christianity, sprung from Jewish roots and comprehensible only as a growth on this soil, represents the counter-movement to any morality of breeding, of race, privilege:—it is the anti-Aryan religion par excellence. Christianity, the revaluation of all Aryan values, the victory of chandala values, the gospel preached to the poor and base, the general revolt of all the downtrodden, the wretched, the failures, the less favored, against race: the undying chandala hatred as the religion of love".  
--"The Jews are responsible for bringing mankind to a state where it finds it ever harder to affirm life at all: they have made mankind sick with their reversal of values, whereby only those who suffer are good, only those who are poor, those who are despised are good; only those who deny life are good."  
--"Christianity aims at mastering beasts of prey; its modus operandi is to make them sick— weakening is the Christian recipe for taming, for “civilizing.” Buddhism is a religion for the closing, over-wearied stages of civilization".  
--Friedrich Nietzsche was a major influence on every jewish philosopher and on every jewish intellectual movement over the past 100 years \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nietzschean_Zionism)\] \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Influence_and_reception_of_Friedrich_Nietzsche#Early_20th-century_thinkers)\] \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deconstruction#Influence_of_Nietzsche)\]. It is almost as if groups like the Frankfurt School read what Nietzsche warned about and then turned around and promoted those things instead.  
--Master–slave morality. Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Master%E2%80%93slave\_morality \[[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Master–slave_morality)\]  

---
